# Oh, CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete)

## In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

* 100’s = Information
* 200’s = Success
* 300’s = Redirection
* 400’s = Client Error
* 500’s = Server Error

## What is a status code 202?

This let's the client know the request has been accepted and will be processed. This is used for async endpoints.

## What is a status code 308?

Permanent Redirect - this is when the resource the client is looking for has been moved to a new location.

## What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

204

## What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

404

## What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

403

## Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

To protect our credentials.

## What is middleware?

A layer between components and systems.

## What does app.use(express.json()) do?

Allows us to parse JSON.

## What does the /:id mean in a route?

It will create an accessible attribute called id.

## What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?

PUT is when all the data is provided and PATCH is a way to PUT when the data is partial.

## How do you make a default value in a schema?

Just use the default attribute.

## What does a 500 error status code mean?

Internal server error.

## What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

201 not only indicates an operation was OK it also informs that something has been created.
