# Passing Functions as Props

## What does .map() return?

Creates a new array by calling a function over each item in the old array.

## If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?

Any type of `for` would work in this instance.

## Each list item needs a unique ____.

Key.

## What is the purpose of a key?

The key identifies a unique item out of an array or list. In terms of React it is used to identify and update based on the key.

## What is the spread operator?

The spread syntax (written as ...) lets you "spread out" or expand items from a list (like an array or the characters in a string) into different places where you might list items one by one. For example, you can use it to add items to a new list or to provide arguments to a function. In the case of objects, which are collections of data with names (like a student with a name and grade), spread syntax can take properties from one object and add them to another.

Think of spread syntax like unpacking a packed lunch into separate dishes; each item gets its own place. It’s kind of the opposite of rest syntax, which does the reverse: it takes multiple separate items and packs them into one group or array. So, while spread syntax spreads items out, rest syntax gathers them up.

## List 4 things that the spread operator can do

According to [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax)

- Replace apply()
- Copy an Array
- Concatenate an Array
- Copy and Merge Objects of an Array

## Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays

let cds = ['linkin park', 'live', 'audioslave']
let vinyl = ['doors', 'pink floyd', 'Johnny Cash']

let myMusicCollection = [...cds, ...vinyl]

## Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array

let myMusicCollection = ['linkin park', 'live', 'audioslave', 'doors', 'pink floyd', 'Johnny Cash']
let newBand = ['Metallica']

let myUpdatedMusic = [...myMusicCollection, newBand]

## Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one

let workstation = { name: 'desk35', inUse: false};
let software = {productivity: 'MSOffice'};

let combinedWorkstation = {...workstation, ...software};
