# Putting it all together

This is mostly based on [React Docs](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react).

## What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

The component should only do one thing and should be decomposed into smaller pieces if it outgrows the principle.

## What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

A static version is essentially stubbing out your data and components. This will not have interactivity.

## Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

State which will be the first step in interactivity.

## What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it isn’t state.
- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it isn’t state.
- Can you compute it based on existing state or props in your component? If so, it definitely isn’t state!

## How can you identify where state needs to live?

- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.
- Find their closest common parent component—a component above them all in the hierarchy.

### Decide where the state should live

- Often, you can put the state directly into their common parent.
- You can also put the state into some component above their common parent.
- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common parent component.

## What is a “higher-order function”?

The last three questions will be answered using [https://eloquentjavascript.net/3rd_edition/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK](https://eloquentjavascript.net/3rd_edition/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK).

`Functions that operate on other functions, either by taking them as arguments or by returning them, are called higher-order functions.`

## Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

It returns a function that compares m to n.

## Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions

They take functions as arguments.
