# Lists, The Box Model, and Loops

## When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document?

This question is asked twice....

The inverse of the ordered list is the unorded list and it should be used when the order of your items do not matter. Such as a list of your favorite sci-fi movies in no particular order because they are all #1 in your heart, or a grocery list.

## How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?

You must now use CSS to change the list-style-type. The attribute type has been deprecated. This is the best [example](https://codehard84.github.io/hello-world/) I have ever seen, no bias, really...

## When should you use an ordered list vs an unorder list in your HTML document?

You should use an ordered list when your list contains items where order matters. Such as the frustrating steps to assemble furniture (I'm looking at you Ikea...), how to cook a pizza or your top ten movies in order.

The inverse of the ordered list is the unorded list and it should be used when the order of your items do not matter. Such as a list of your favorite sci-fi movies in no particular order because they are all #1 in your heart, or a grocery list.

## Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?

To change the numbers on an ordered list you can use either an attribute tag or CSS to style it.

## Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding as characters in a story. What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”?

The margin is the outermost box in the box model. Padding is the white space between the margin and the content. Now to put this into a story. Disclaimer: I am not a creative writer.

There once was a brave knight named Margin, and he protected Princess Padding from the outside world. The knight had great walls built to surround the castle, but the princess thought that was not enough. So, she had a castle built where she could live in the middle, with her child who was named Content.

## List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the box model

Paraphrased from [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)

1. Content box
2. Padding box
3. Border box
4. Margin box

The content box is where your content will go, and it is the innermost square. The padding box creates whitespace between the content and the margin. The border box, which can be styled, surrounds the padding box. The margin box is the outermost layer of the box model and determines the overall size of the box.

## What data types can you store inside of an Array?

You can store arrays in arrays, strings, numbers, and objects.

## Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?

The people array is valid JavaScript and it can be accessed in several ways. Here is an example of using [for](https://replit.com/@sockgnome/ArrayPlay#index.js).

```Javascript
const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];
```

## List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do

1. My favorite I learned today: `x += f()` this is for addition and can be used to increase an int or even add to a array.
2. `x ?? = f()` If I understand this (which I probably don't) this is a Nullish coalescing assignment. What it does is assigns a value if the current value is null or undefined. This would have came in handy for sanitizing input on lab03 today!
3. `x *= f()` this is used for multiplication. It will multiple x by f() in this scenario.
4. `<<=` this is the left shift assignment, this will move the 1's in binary left by what you indicate. Such as `x <<= 2;`. I am not sure how this will be of use yet. But I did take the time to understand the concept.
5. `x -= f()` this is for subtraction and can be used to remove items from an array or decrease an int.

## Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why

Without running the code I would assume:

dog

```JavaScript
 let a = 10;
 let b = 'dog';
 let c = false;

 // evaluate this
 (a + c) + b;
```

However when I [executed](https://replit.com/@sockgnome/ArrayPlay#index.js) the code it actually returns 10dog.

I think this has some dynamically typed trickery. But I took the time to actually learn:

1. The code first adds 10 + false
2. false is boolean and is a 0

So it works as:

 `(10 + 0) + dog` <--- This is int + int + string
 `10 + dog` <--- This is int + string
 `10dog` <--- This is because JavaScript converts the int to a string when concatenating them so this is a string.


## Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program

Broken down very simply... If it is raining outside bring an umbrella.

A conditional statement in JavaScript should be used when you have the logic requirement. If you need to evaluate and then execute on a condition.

## Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript

In my earlier example I used a [for](https://replit.com/@sockgnome/ArrayPlay#index.js) loop. This example is useful when you need to iterate through an array of things.
