# Setup Developer Toolbelt

## HTTP and Data

Here is a poem about how HTTP sends data to clients on the internet. It was not written by me, it was written by ChatGPT (At least I can rhyme)!
I really did not care for this piece because I am not a creative writer. I did however check the poem for veracity, because one day I hope to be
a full stack coder, and not a wordsmith.

```Text
In the realm of cyberspace, where data streams flow,
A protocol, HTTP, makes the web's heart glow.
It's a tale of requests and responses, so keen,
A dance of bytes, in the digital unseen.

Once upon a fingertip, a user's wish is born,
Pressed on keys, a URL, in the early morn.
HTTP awakens, a messenger so deft,
Crafting a request, with precision and heft.

In the header, the request's identity unfurls,
Host names, paths, and methods, in binary swirls.
The GET retrieves, while POST may create,
Each method a purpose, in this web debate.

Through the vast network, the request takes flight,
Over cables and waves, at the speed of light.
Routers and switches, in silent accord,
Guide this digital envoy, through the internet fjord.

Arriving at the server, a guardian of lore,
Holding web pages, data, and so much more.
It reads the request, understands the plea,
And prepares a response, to set the data free.

Headers in response, like a crown well-earned,
Status codes and types, in its wisdom discerned.
200 for success, 404 if not found,
Each number a story, in HTTP's compound.

The body follows, rich with HTML grace,
Images, text, style, all find their place.
Or JSON's structure, for data's embrace,
Each format a choice, in the web's vast space.

Back through the network, the response makes its way,
To the eager user, without any delay.
The browser interprets, renders the sight,
A page comes to life, in pixels of light.

So here's to HTTP, a protocol so grand,
Linking the world, with a digital band.
In this dance of data, across the cyber sea,
HTTP's the rhythm, of our web tapestry.
```

## HTML, CSS, and JS Parsing

According to [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/How_the_Web_works) the order
in which component files are parsed:

1. HTML File
2. CSS
3. JavaScript

When the HTML file is parsed the parser looks for specific elements such as `<link>` and `<script>`. It will then parse those files or embedded
scripts. Once the data is parsed it is presented (rendered) to the user's browser.

## How can you find images to add to a Website

You can use Google Images and search for images that are under the Creative Commons licenses. You can find images by license using the `tools` button on Google Images. Alternatively, you can use DAL-E to generate your own images.

## How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript

In JavaScript a string is denoted by single `'` or double `"` quotations marks. A type of number will be simple a number such as `8`.

```JavaScript
// This is a string
let myString = "Jace is learning JavaScript";

// This is a number
let myNumber = 77;

/* A piece of why JavaScript is a dynamically typed language is you could change the type of the variable later in the code. */
myString = 22;
myNumber = "Seventy-seven";

// Obviously this can lead to bugs in your code. So watch your `types` closesly. =)

```

## What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript

A variable is simply that, think back to early pre-algebra. (X - Y) * 2 = 10; Solve for X and Y. In this case X and Y are merely a placeholder that can be assigned many different `types` of values.

Variables are incredibly important in programming as it allows programmers to dynamically parse input, store bits of data, and much more. Variables are the bedrock of coding and a program would be realitively simple without them. See an example below:

```JavaScript
// Imagine a function that adds two numbers.
function addTwoNumbers() {
    return 5 + 5;    
}
addTwoNumbers();

/* The above function will simply add 5 and 5 together. This is not very useful. Now imagine the below code. */
function addTwoNumbers(num1, num2) {
    return num1 + num2;
}
addTwoNumbers(5, 5);

/* The above code allows us to pass arguments to the function, the JS compiler knows the function needs the arguments because we set the `parameters` in the function declaration. */
```

## What is an HTML attribute

An attribute adds extra data to an element that modifies the way it acts. An examples of this:

`<h1 class="coolClass">This is a complete header element.</h1>`

This adds the `class` attribute to the `<h1>` element.

## Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element

The anatomy of an HTML element consist of 3 basic parts:

1. Opening tag
2. Content
3. Closing tag

These things create the `element` such as:

`<h1>This is a complete header element.</h1>`

## What is the Difference between article and section element tags

An article element tag indicates that the content is a COMPLETE article where the section tag indicates the content is part of a whole but not the whole by itself.

## What Elements does a “typical” website include

According to [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML/Getting_started#anatomy_of_an_html_document) the typical website includes:

1. Doctype `<!DOCTYPE html>`
2. HTML element `<html></html>`
3. Head element `<head></head>`
4. Meta element `<meta></meta>`
5. Title element `<title></title>`
6. Body element `<body></body>`

## How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization

Metadata is information in an HTML page that instructs the browser and in this case web spiders. The metadata of a site can tell the webspider the title and description of the website, keywords, author, company, and much more. Using appropriate metadata will increase the SEO value of your website.

## How is the meta HTML tag used when specifying metadata

The `<meta>` tag is used just like other tags in an HTML document. The `<meta>` element is not a section and is defined line by line in the `head` element of an HTML document.

## What is the first step to designing a Website

According to [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Design_and_accessibility/Thinking_before_coding) project ideation is the necessary first step. This step will allow you to step through your ideas, problems, and solutions before hitting the coding phase.

## What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website

According to [Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/Design_and_accessibility/Thinking_before_coding) the most important question to answer when designing a website is: *What exactly do I want to accomplish?*

## Why should you use an <h1> element over a <span> element to display a top level heading

An `<h1>` element is semantic and defines the top level header of your page. This element has special value to the browser and search engines. You can use a `span` element to simulate a top level heading but it won't have the special value as listed above.

## What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML

The benefits of using semantic tags are that they give us special benefits that a non-semantic element would not. This includes things like helping with SEO, accessability, or getting the user to meaningful content quickly.

## Describe two things that require JavaScript in the Browser

1. Creating interactive content. JavaScript allows the developer to create an interactive website for their user. This could be anything from simply telling the user hello and using their name to complex simulations.
2. Interfacing with the browser API. JavaScript has access to the browsers APIs, this simply means that the capabilities of the browser are exposed for use in JavaScript by the developer.

## How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?

1. You can embed it internally by using the `<script>` element.
2. You can use an external file by using the `<script>` element with a `source=""` attribute.
3. You can use it inline by calling a function directly in the HTML code.
