# Psychological Safety

## What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?

1. Equal Speaking
2. High average social sensitivty
3. Collective appreciation for norms

## Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety.

I have never been on a team that I would have considered to be psychologicaly safe. That is most likely that I am from a state that still values the suck-it-up buttercup mentality. Though as a manager I am guilty of perpetuating this as well. Every team I have ever been a part of or built has been built on merit and drive, not psychological safety. I will say my results have always been great and we have always crushed our goals. However, my churn was high and my personal burnout was also high. I see value in knowing these things but I also see value in knowing that each individual requires a different management style. I never managed people, only attitudes.

## What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?

This is a subjective question that I am not very comfortable with answering. I do not have personal experience here and I am not one to present information that I do not know to be fact. Again, I have had success with my teams that had no regard for psychological safety. So I will not go all in on saying that this is the best end all be all way to effectively build teams.

I think the features of psychologically safe teams can be coached into individuals with time. As opposed to building a team based solely around these ideals. It would be easy for me to take the idea of equal speaking to my team, it would be easy to teach them to be more sensitive towards eachother, and our norms are generally respected. These are things really I think you learn over time. It might be a wasted exercise to try to beat these ideals into someones head when they are really just default playground skills that you sharpen as you go.

With all of this in mind I will close these notes by saying managing styles, team dynamics, and outcomes are going to depend on the situation you are in. A baseball team would require something different than a sales team whom would be very different from an engineering team.
