# Basics of HTML, CSS & JS

This week I used the following to check the values of prompts. These things are important to know in full stack development because
they are the foundation of logic in a program. Without HTML and CSS we would not have a web front-end, so they speak mostly for themselves.

## Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?

Semantic elements contain extra information for browsers, search engines, and accessability devices than their non-semantic counter-parts.

## How many levels of headings are there in HTML?

There are six levels of heading in HTML. `<h1>-<h6>` respectively.

## What are some uses for the `<sup>` and `<sub>` elements?

`<sup>` is used for superscript and `<sub>` for subscript. Something like:

x<sup>3</sup> <--- Superscript

H<sub>2</sub>0 <-- Subscript

Think of it's use for expressing mathmatical, engineering, chemical equations, or for dates. Super is up top because it flies like superman and sub is on the bottom like a submarine.

## When using the `<abbr>` element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?

When creating a abbreviation element you must add the `title=""` attribute to expand the term.

## What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?

1. You can include your styling in a style element.
2. You can add a CSS source file attribute to a style element.
3. You can use inline styling.

## Why should we avoid using inline styles?

Inline styles should be avoided because it is easy to overlook them if your refactoring your website. You have
to change the style in EVERY HTML file to do a site wide change. It also overrides the styles in your CSS file.

## Describe the CSS code

```css
   h2 {
     color: black;
     padding: 5px;
   }
```

h2 is the selector, color and padding are the properties, and the brackets {} are the declaration.

## JavaScript Basics

## What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?

This would be a string.

## List 4 types of JavaScript operators

1. Not/Does not `!, !===`
2. Strict equality `===`
3. Assignment `=`
4. Addition `+`

## Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function

A function is a great way to reuse code. Anytime you are going to need to repeat code, use a function! Write it once and call/invoke it
unlimited times!

## An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.

condition true

## What is the use of an else if?

You would use an `else if` to continue checking a condition until one or the `else` is executed.

## List 3 different types of comparison operators.

1. `===` tests if a value is the same as one another.
2. `<` compares if one value is less than another.
3. `>=` compares if a value is greater than or equal to another.

## What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?

By using `&&` you are checking if multiple statements both evaluate to true.

```Javascript
if (imTired === true && isItBedtime === true) {
  // I am tired and it is bedtime so....
  goToBed();
}
```

By using `||` also known as pipes you are comparing multiple statements and executing code if one condition returns true.

```Javascript
if(imTired === false || imSick === true) {
  // I am not tired but I am sick so...
  goToBed();
}
```

Even though imTired is false imSick is true and thus we're going to bed!
