# Debugging

## Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error

A syntax error can be thought of as something that is 'grammatically' incorrect. Such as a spelling error `funtcion doSometing()` note the errors.

A logical error can be explained as an error that is not related to syntax but rather programmer logic. The code will be correct in all but logic. A good example of this is an off by one error.

The key difference between the two errors is JS can still run some code that contains syntax errors, but not always. A logic error will run it will just be less noticeable and harder to debug as the code is written syntactically correct.

## List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them

I experienced an off by one error on my first loop because I did not realize it counted 0. I corrected this by researching the issue. This is a logic error.

I have written CSS that targetted the wrong ID due to typos. This was corrected by using the tools in my browser.

Generally the issues I have boil down to typos. I have tried to fix this by slowing down in my work and being more deliberate when I type.

## How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals

Well bugs are a big part of coding and as such they will influence my goal to be a programmer. I think bugs are just part of the workflow and creative process. Sometimes we don't always think about things in the same way and that's where we as coders bring value in the world of AI. I will continue to embrace the pain.

## How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?

The JS Debugger will allow you to watch your code being executed. This allows you to see issues during runtime, such as messed up variables, type mismatch, and many other errors.

## Define what a breakpoint is

A breakpoint is a place in your code where you wish the debugger to stop the execution. You can then see the results of your code at that point or step further foward.

## What is the call stack

A call stack is the code that was executed prior to the breakpoint. This allows you to trace what has happened up to the breakpoint.
