# Structure web pages with HTML

While websites may vary widely in theme and content, they universally utilize HTML as the fundamental structure for web pages. The way this HTML is delivered to the user's browser can vary significantly; it may be generated through various programming languages such as Python, JavaScript, or Go, among others. These languages are then interpreted into HTML and subsequently rendered within the user's browser.

## What is HTML, why do we use it?

Throughout my journey as a student web developer, I have predominantly used Markdown. For those following my progress as an aspiring full-stack developer, Markdown is the language shaping my writings. It's important to note that Markdown differs from HTML; while HTML is a markup language, Markdown is a lightweight markup language designed for formatting text. Essentially, think of Markdown as a simplified method for creating HTML documents. Although it might initially seem complex, the concept is straightforward: all web pages are fundamentally HTML, and Markdown serves as a convenient shorthand for generating this HTML. Now, let's delve into HTML and explore its significance.

HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language and is universally recognized as the foundational framework for all web pages. You might consider HTML as the language of the web, with the browser acting as its interpreter. The browser fetches HTML documents from a web server using protocols like HTTP or HTTPS, then interprets and displays the content.

HTML lays out the structure and content for the web page, which the browser renders. This structure and content are further enhanced and styled by CSS and JavaScript. Alternatively, the HTML can be dynamically generated or modified before it reaches the browser, utilizing server-side technologies such as PHP, Perl, Python, Node, and many more. These technologies allow for a more dynamic, interactive, and personalized user experience.

## What are the three main parts of an HTML element?

The three main parts of an HTML element are:

+ The opening tag `<p>`
+ The closing tag `</p>`
+ The content `HTML is fun!`

All of these components make up the HTML element, such as below:

`<p>HTML is fun!</p>`

The HTML element above will instruct the browser that the content between the tags is a paragraph.

### Attributes

Attributes are added to HTML elements to deliver extra information about the element. A good example of this as according to the Mozilla HTML [guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/HTML_basics) is a class tag.

Following the above element example we add an attribute to like so:

`<p class="brownie-points">HTML is fun!</p>`

By giving the paragraph a class (or some class, haha?) we will be able to target the paragraph for additional processing such as adding styling via CSS or manipulating the text via JavaScript.

### A semantic element

A semantic element in HTML as explained by Mozilla HTML [guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/HTML_basics) is an element that has semantic value such as the `<h1>` HTML tag. This tag not only tells the browser that the content is of a header one type it instructs the browser that the content of the tag is the header. As learned in a previous journal there should be only one h1 (insert Highlander reference). In short a semantic value is derived by the purpose or role of the HTML element.
